Assignment 1

Perform the following operations using Python on any open source dataset (e.g., data.csv)

1. Import all the required Python Libraries.

2. Locate an open source data from the web. Provide a clear description of the data and its source (i.e., URL of the web site).

3. Load the Dataset into pandas data frame.

4.
Data Preprocessing: check for missing values in the data using pandas
insult(), describe() function to get some initial statistics. Provide
variable descriptions. Types of variables etc. Check the dimensions of
the data frame.

5. Data Formatting and Data Normalization:
Summarize the types of variables by checking the data types (i.e.,
character, numeric, integer, factor, and logical) of the variables in
the data set. If variables are not in the correct data type, apply
proper type conversions.

6. Turn categorical variables into
quantitative variables in Python. In addition to the codes and outputs,
explain every operation that you do in the above steps and explain
everything that you do to import/read/scrape the data set.

Assignment 2

Create an “Academic performance” dataset of students and perform the following operations using Python.

1.
Scan all variables for missing values and inconsistencies. If there are
missing values and/or inconsistencies, use any of the suitable
techniques to deal with them.

2. Scan all numeric variables for outliers. If there are outliers, use any of the suitable techniques to deal with them.

3.
Apply data transformations on at least one of the variables. The
purpose of this transformation should be one of the following reasons:
to change the scale for better understanding of the variable, to convert
a non-linear relation into a linear one, or to decrease the skewness
and convert the distribution into a normal distribution.

Assignment 3

Perform the following operations on any open source dataset

1.
Provide summary statistics (mean, median, minimum, maximum, standard
deviation) for a dataset with numeric variables grouped by one of the
qualitative variable. For example, if your categorical variable is age
groups and quantitative variable is income, then provide summary
statistics of income grouped by the age groups. Create a list that
contains a numeric value for each response to the categorical variable.

2.
Write a Python program to display some basic statistical details of the
species of ‘Iris-setosa’, ‘Iris-versicolor’ and ‘Iris-versicolor’ of
iris.csv dataset.

Assignment 4

Create a Linear Regression
Model using Python/R to predict home prices using Boston Housing
Dataset. The Boston Housing dataset contains information about various
houses in Boston through different parameters. There are 506 samples and
14 feature variables in this dataset. The objective is to predict the
value of prices of the house using the given features.

Assignment 5

1. Implement logistic regression using Python/R to perform classification on Social_Network_Ads.csv dataset.

2. Compute Confusion matrix to find TP, FP, TN, FN, Accuracy, Error rate, Precision, Recall on the given dataset.

Assignment 6

1. Implement Simple Naïve Bayes classification algorithm using Python/R on iris.csv dataset.

2. Compute Confusion matrix to find TP, FP, TN, FN, Accuracy, Error rate, precision, recall on the given dataset.

Assignment 7

1.
Extract Sample document and apply following document preprocessing
methods: Tokenization, POS Tagging, stop words removal, Stemming and
Lemmatization.

2. Create representation of document by calculating Term Frequency and Inverse Document Frequency.

Assignment 8

1.
Use the inbuilt dataset 'titanic'. The dataset contains 891 rows and
contains information about the passengers who boarded the unfortunate
Titanic ship. Use the Seaborn library to see if we can find any patterns
in the data.

2. Write a code to check how the price of the
ticket (column name: 'fare') for each passenger is distributed by
plotting a histogram.

Assignment 9

1. Use the inbuilt
dataset 'titanic' as used in the above problem. Plot a box plot for
distribution of age with respect to each gender along with the
information about whether they survived or not. (Column names : 'sex'
and 'age')

2. Write observations on the inference from the above statistics.

Assignment 10

Download the Iris flower dataset or any other dataset into a DataFrame. Scan the dataset and give the inference as:

1. List down the features and their types (e.g., numeric, nominal) available in the dataset.

2. Create a histogram for each feature in the dataset to illustrate the feature distributions.

3. Create a box plot for each feature in the dataset.

4. Compare distributions and identify outliers.

Group B- Big Data Analytics
Assignment 1

Write a simple program in SCALA using Apache Spark framework

Group C- Mini Projects
Covid Vaccination Analysis

Use
the following covid_vaccine_statewise.csv dataset and perform following
analytics on the given dataset
https://www.kaggle.com/sudalairajkumar/covid19-in-india?select=covid_vaccine_statewise.csv

a. Describe the dataset

b. Number of persons state wise vaccinated for first dose in India

c. Number of persons state wise vaccinated for second dose in India

d. Number of Males vaccinated

e. Number of females vaccinated